
CS 695
Topics in Virtualization and Cloud Computing

Mid-semester exam Answer Key
----------------------------

Q.1. True/False. Justification required.

(a) False.
The double-paging problem does not depend in full or para virtualization.
If hypervisor performs demand paging (reclaim machine) pages assigned
to virtual machines, double paging can always occur.

(b) False.
CR3 is privileged hardware state and para-virtualized or not, needs VMM
intervention to check what the CR3 is updated with (CR3 is hence virtualized).
If not virutalized, the CR3 can point to "illegal" page tables and isolation
accross VMS cannot be guaranteed. With para-virtualization the update command
to CR3 may be via a hypercall, but the VMM still intervenes.

(c) True.
Network packets (layer 2 frames) can be transmitted between Dom0 and DomU
using the IO ring without layer 2 processing---header attachment, checksum
calculation etc. Since the packet is already in the physical system and
only has to cross a software boundary conventional Layer 2 processing 
can be skipped. If this so, the guest OS front-end driver will work
with a much simpler interface, e.g., one which points to L3 packet contents
to be copied from a location stored in the IO ring.

(d) True.
Since sensitive instructions are alos privileged instructions, no critical
instructions, all such intructions will generate ane exception. 
The VMM can intervene via the trap-and-emulate framework for correct
virtualization.

(e) False.
Even with a single VM, access to CR3 has to be protected, e.g.,
not to over write memory regions of the hypervisor or not let it
uses page not alloted to it.

(f) True.
If the Dom0 uses a Layer 2 software bridge to forward packets between
the guest OSes and the outside network, all packets need to be inspected
by the software bridge to make forwarding decisions.
Hence, the physical NiC of the machine will have to be in promiscous mode,
to accept all packets irrespective of whether the destination address
matches MAC address of the physical NiC.

False.
If Dom0 uses a Layer router/NAT functionality to connect VMs to the 
external network, then the physical NiC does not have to operate in 
promiscous mode. Layer 3 routing will use IP if the Dom0 router and
it's corresponding Layer 2 address to get packets to Dom0.

(g) True.
After rollback to a checkpointed state, all external eventss are
non-deterministic and hence tghe system can produce output not similar
to the one after checkpoint and before failure.
e.g., the book that you were looking for is now sold out!

(h) False.
All network state has to be protected before check pointing.
UDP itself might be unreliable, but the data that it sends may
expose speculative state. e.g., a DNS update that is no longer
valid as the system crashed.

(i) False.
Perform so many iterations that very few pages are left to transfer
in the stop-and-copy phase. To get to this point may need several
iterations, or each iteration maybe very slow due to low available
network bandwidth. In such cases, the down time will be reduced but
the migration time will be very large.

(j) False.
G&P requirements are for design of VMMs, nothing to do with generic
cloud services.

Q.2.
(a) 
- If page fault is only due to the invalidation of the Page Table entries in 
  which no disk access is required to handle the page fault then it is minor 
  page fault.
- If Disk access is requiered to handle the page fault then it is major 
  page fault.  

Q.2.
(b)
- Depends on your heuristic but your heuristic should consider
  Memory and CPU usage and its impact on both. Graphs should be
  relevant to the question for the experiment.

Q.3.
(a)
- hypercalls to update page tables for memory virtualization.
  no need to chase CR3.
- no multi-level device emulation required for IO.
  split-device/driver IO model, lets guest interface with a much
  simpler device specification.
- can implement grey-box techniques---guest OS helping hypervisor management
  explicitly. e.g., freeing all page cache pages during migration (balloon
  size need not be specified, guest frees pages and tells how many freed),
  stunning rogue processes.
- guest OS self-ballooning. without hypervisor commands, VMs balloon out
  unused memory and let hypervisor know of the same.
Q.3.
(b)
- Discussed in the class. 
- V2P and P2M both should be shown in the diagram.
- All necessary steps to get final physical address of page are 
  done in hardware.
- Faults should be handled at both VM and VMM level.

Q.3.
(c)
- Discussed in the class. 
- V2P and V2M both should be shown in the diagram.
- Final physical address of page is obtained by accessing the Shadow page table.
- Page tables at both level (V2P and V2M) are consistent by making page table 
  pages write protected.
- Faults should be handled at both VM and VMM level.

Q.3.
(d)
- each hardware timer interrupt is passed on to the VM.
  this is done via the VIRQ method---a virtual register (memory location)
  is set to indicate a timer interrupt and when the VM is scheduled/resumed,
  it's VCPU state (copied from the memory state) will reflect a pending
  timer interrtupt.
  the VM will proces the interrupt and increment time.
  note that timer interrupts are periodic interrupts, e.g., one every 10 ms
  and are the basis to adjust the notion of changing time.

- if a VM is not scheduled the VMM can do one of two things,
  - bunch all timer interrupts and deliver them when the VM is scheduled.
    this has the effect of a very fast rate of change of time.
    in 1 sec, time changes by several seconds.
  - ignore interrupts when VM is not scheduled.
    in this case the wall-clock time of the VM lags behind actual time.
    10.03 am in the VM is actually 10.03 pm in the real world!
  - in both of the above cases virtual time (time in the VM) has 
    an issue, either it changes too fast or lags behind.
  - if time changes too fast, processes may not be scheduled for their
    actual time quantum and real-time deadlines appear too soon!
    not enough time to finish work before deadline.
  - it time lags, deadlines based on real clock may delayed.
    wake me up at 6 am! cannot be trusted.

Q.4.
(a)
- Parameters:
  Size of WWS, Available N/W bandwidth, Page dirty rate, VMSize.
- Metric:
  Migration time, Down time.
 
- Available N/W bandwidth will affect post-copy live migration in terms of 
  both migration and down time while VM size will affect migration time.


Q.4.
(b) 
- Find the number of pages that can be migrated in bounded time 
  depending on the resources.
- Maintain a limit on the number of pages to be migrated during bounded time.
- Flush extra pages to the secondary VM (store at other location)
  if number of dirty pages or pages to be migrated rise above the limit.

